# C Assignment Answers

1. Is C a compiled language or an interpreted language? Is C statically typed or dynamically typed?
-  C is a compiled language and the program, once compiled, is expressed in the instructions of the target machine. This machine code is undecipherable by humans. C is a statically typed language since the programmer has to declare the variable types such that they are known at compile time. 

2. In c/matmpy.c, line 16 we define a structure called t_matrix. This is a data type with two attributes: matsize which is of type struct t_matsize, and values which is of type double **. What does the ** mean? Explain why we'd use this type to represent a 2-dimensional matrix of numbers.
- We are creating an array of pointers dynamically using a double pointer (denoted by **). Once we have an array pointers allocated dynamically, we can dynamically allocate memory for every row.

3. When constructing this assignment I needed it to work on Windows, MacOS, and Linux hosts. One difference between these OSes is text-file line-ending markers: On the Mac and Linux we use \n to mark the end of theline.OnWindowsweusetwocharacters:\r\n. Thisisahistorical holdover from DOS, Windows' original kernel. Docker hides most of these host-OS details from the container, but because we "mount" local folders inside the container (See lines 7 and 8 in the c/docker-compose.yaml file.) I had to deal with the possibility of either file-type. Where in matmpy.c can you find code that deals with this line-ending difference? Can you find any other places in the c/ folder that deal with this line-ending difference?
- In matmpy.c we are using the function next_matrix_symbol to check the next seperator in the file. If it is \n or if it is \r followed by a \n then we are classifying it as the end of the row, otherwise it is a bad format. Apart from this function, we are also using dos2unix (which is a DOS/MAC to UNIX text file format converter) to convert our output in an expected csv file and then compare it to our final result csv. This command converts line breaks in the file without saving it in the original format.
